classes/class_audioeffectspectrumanalyzerinstance.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance.xml.

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance:

AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance
===================================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioEffectInstance<class_AudioEffectInstance>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this class. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` | :ref:`get_magnitude_for_frequency_range<class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_method_get_magnitude_for_frequency_range>` **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` from_hz, :ref:`float<class_float>` to_hz, :ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` mode=1 **)** |const| |
   +-------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **MagnitudeMode**:

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_constant_MAGNITUDE_AVERAGE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` **MAGNITUDE_AVERAGE** = ``0``

Use the average value as magnitude.

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_constant_MAGNITUDE_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` **MAGNITUDE_MAX** = ``1``

Use the maximum value as magnitude.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_method_get_magnitude_for_frequency_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` **get_magnitude_for_frequency_range** **(** :ref:`float<class_float>` from_hz, :ref:`float<class_float>` to_hz, :ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` mode=1 **)** |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (61598c5)

classes/class_audioeffectspectrumanalyzerinstance.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance.xml.

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance:

AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance
===================================

**Inherits:** :ref:`AudioEffectInstance<class_AudioEffectInstance>` **<** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

Queryable instance of an :ref:`AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzer<class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzer>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

The runtime part of an :ref:`AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzer<class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzer>`, which can be used to query the magnitude of a frequency range on its host bus.

An instance of this class can be acquired with :ref:`AudioServer.get_bus_effect_instance<class_AudioServer_method_get_bus_effect_instance>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Tutorials
---------

- `Audio Spectrum Visualizer Demo <https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset/2762>`__

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` | :ref:`get_magnitude_for_frequency_range<class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_method_get_magnitude_for_frequency_range>`\ (\ from_hz\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, to_hz\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, mode\: :ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` = 1\ ) |const| |
   +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Enumerations
------------

.. _enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration

enum **MagnitudeMode**: :ref:`🔗<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>`

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_constant_MAGNITUDE_AVERAGE:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` **MAGNITUDE_AVERAGE** = ``0``

Use the average value across the frequency range as magnitude.

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_constant_MAGNITUDE_MAX:

.. rst-class:: classref-enumeration-constant

:ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` **MAGNITUDE_MAX** = ``1``

Use the maximum value of the frequency range as magnitude.

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_method_get_magnitude_for_frequency_range:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Vector2<class_Vector2>` **get_magnitude_for_frequency_range**\ (\ from_hz\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, to_hz\: :ref:`float<class_float>`, mode\: :ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>` = 1\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_method_get_magnitude_for_frequency_range>`

Returns the magnitude of the frequencies from ``from_hz`` to ``to_hz`` in linear energy as a Vector2. The ``x`` component of the return value represents the left stereo channel, and ``y`` represents the right channel.

\ ``mode`` determines how the frequency range will be processed. See :ref:`MagnitudeMode<enum_AudioEffectSpectrumAnalyzerInstance_MagnitudeMode>`.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
