classes/class_skinreference.rst, before:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/SkinReference.xml.

.. _class_SkinReference:

SkinReference
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this class. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_skeleton<class_SkinReference_method_get_skeleton>` **(** **)** |const| |
   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` | :ref:`get_skin<class_SkinReference_method_get_skin>` **(** **)** |const|         |
   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_SkinReference_method_get_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_skeleton** **(** **)** |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SkinReference_method_get_skin:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` **get_skin** **(** **)** |const|

.. container:: contribute

	There is currently no description for this method. Please help us by :ref:`contributing one <doc_updating_the_class_reference>`!

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`

Commit message:

classref: Sync with current master branch (e65a237)

classes/class_skinreference.rst, after:

:github_url: hide

.. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!!!
.. Generated automatically from Godot engine sources.
.. Generator: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/tools/make_rst.py.
.. XML source: https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/master/doc/classes/SkinReference.xml.

.. _class_SkinReference:

SkinReference
=============

**Inherits:** :ref:`RefCounted<class_RefCounted>` **<** :ref:`Object<class_Object>`

A reference-counted holder object for a skeleton RID used in the :ref:`RenderingServer<class_RenderingServer>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-introduction-group

Description
-----------

An internal object containing a mapping from a :ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` used within the context of a particular :ref:`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` to refer to the skeleton's :ref:`RID<class_RID>` in the RenderingServer.

See also :ref:`MeshInstance3D.get_skin_reference<class_MeshInstance3D_method_get_skin_reference>` and :ref:`RenderingServer.instance_attach_skeleton<class_RenderingServer_method_instance_attach_skeleton>`.

Note that despite the similar naming, the skeleton RID used in the :ref:`RenderingServer<class_RenderingServer>` does not have a direct one-to-one correspondence to a :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node.

In particular, a :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` node with no :ref:`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` children may be unknown to the :ref:`RenderingServer<class_RenderingServer>`.

On the other hand, a :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` with multiple :ref:`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` nodes which each have different :ref:`MeshInstance3D.skin<class_MeshInstance3D_property_skin>` objects may have multiple SkinReference instances (and hence, multiple skeleton :ref:`RID<class_RID>`\ s).

.. rst-class:: classref-reftable-group

Methods
-------

.. table::
   :widths: auto

   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`RID<class_RID>`   | :ref:`get_skeleton<class_SkinReference_method_get_skeleton>`\ (\ ) |const| |
   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | :ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` | :ref:`get_skin<class_SkinReference_method_get_skin>`\ (\ ) |const|         |
   +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. rst-class:: classref-section-separator

----

.. rst-class:: classref-descriptions-group

Method Descriptions
-------------------

.. _class_SkinReference_method_get_skeleton:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`RID<class_RID>` **get_skeleton**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_SkinReference_method_get_skeleton>`

Returns the :ref:`RID<class_RID>` owned by this SkinReference, as returned by :ref:`RenderingServer.skeleton_create<class_RenderingServer_method_skeleton_create>`.

.. rst-class:: classref-item-separator

----

.. _class_SkinReference_method_get_skin:

.. rst-class:: classref-method

:ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` **get_skin**\ (\ ) |const| :ref:`🔗<class_SkinReference_method_get_skin>`

Returns the :ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` connected to this SkinReference. In the case of :ref:`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>` with no :ref:`MeshInstance3D.skin<class_MeshInstance3D_property_skin>` assigned, this will reference an internal default :ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` owned by that :ref:`MeshInstance3D<class_MeshInstance3D>`.

Note that a single :ref:`Skin<class_Skin>` may have more than one **SkinReference** in the case that it is shared by meshes across multiple :ref:`Skeleton3D<class_Skeleton3D>` nodes.

.. |virtual| replace:: :abbr:`virtual (This method should typically be overridden by the user to have any effect.)`
.. |const| replace:: :abbr:`const (This method has no side effects. It doesn't modify any of the instance's member variables.)`
.. |vararg| replace:: :abbr:`vararg (This method accepts any number of arguments after the ones described here.)`
.. |constructor| replace:: :abbr:`constructor (This method is used to construct a type.)`
.. |static| replace:: :abbr:`static (This method doesn't need an instance to be called, so it can be called directly using the class name.)`
.. |operator| replace:: :abbr:`operator (This method describes a valid operator to use with this type as left-hand operand.)`
.. |bitfield| replace:: :abbr:`BitField (This value is an integer composed as a bitmask of the following flags.)`
.. |void| replace:: :abbr:`void (No return value.)`
